keyboards/massdrop/alt/keymaps/mac_losandes/README.md, before:

# Generated Keymap Layout

This layout was generated by the QMK API. You can find the JSON data used to
generate this keymap in the file layers.json.

To make use of this file you will need follow the following steps:

* Download or Clone QMK Firmware: <https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/>
* Extract QMK Firmware to a location on your hard drive
* Copy this folder into %s
* You are now ready to compile or use your keymap with the source

More information can be found in the QMK docs: <https://docs.qmk.fm>

## Cloning

```Shell
git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:losandes/qmk_firmware.git
```

## Installation

```Shell
brew install pyenv
pyenv install 3.7.4

brew tap osx-cross/avr
brew tap PX4/homebrew-px4
brew update
brew install avr-gcc@8 gcc-arm-none-eabi dfu-programmer avrdude dfu-util
brew link --force avr-gcc@8
pip3 install -r ~/src/losandes/qmk-firmware/requirements.txt

# If you need to have this software first in your PATH instead consider running:
#  echo 'export PATH="/usr/local/opt/avr-gcc@8/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc
```

Test the installation:

```Shell
make massdrop/alt:default
```

## Building Firmware

```Shell
rm massdrop_alt_mac_losandes.bin
make clean
make massdrop/alt:mac_losandes
```

## Reference

* [Spreadsheet to help calculate bitwise ids for individual keys](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bsaMF4qmJNhvqlxmHmaXnhs7gung7_A0EqAyjStg_7U/edit?usp=sharing) (by @lastcontinue,famguy07, pleasuretek)
* [QMK keymap list of keycodes](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/blob/master/docs/keycodes.md)

Commit message:

Adds New LED Configurator and Custom Programs

keyboards/massdrop/alt/keymaps/mac_losandes/README.md, after:

# Generated Keymap Layout

This layout was generated by the QMK API. You can find the JSON data used to
generate this keymap in the file layers.json.

To make use of this file you will need follow the following steps:

* Download or Clone QMK Firmware: <https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/>
* Extract QMK Firmware to a location on your hard drive
* Copy this folder into %s
* You are now ready to compile or use your keymap with the source

More information can be found in the QMK docs: <https://docs.qmk.fm>

## Cloning

```Shell
git clone --recurse-submodules git@github.com:losandes/qmk_firmware.git
```

## Installation

```Shell
brew install nvm
nvm install --lts
nvm alias default node

brew install pyenv
pyenv install 3.7.4

brew tap osx-cross/avr
brew tap PX4/homebrew-px4
brew update
brew install avr-gcc@8 gcc-arm-none-eabi dfu-programmer avrdude dfu-util
brew link --force avr-gcc@8
pip3 install -r ~/src/losandes/qmk-firmware/requirements.txt

# If you need to have this software first in your PATH instead consider running:
#  echo 'export PATH="/usr/local/opt/avr-gcc@8/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc
```

Test the installation:

```Shell
make massdrop/alt:default
```

## Building Firmware

```Shell
rm massdrop_alt_mac_losandes.bin
make clean
make massdrop/alt:mac_losandes
```

## Configuring the LEDS
This keymap has a NodeJS LED configurator. You can copy and modify the `./led-layers.js` file to make an LED map. The map is simply an array that I defined with delimiters that mock the physical layout. It's the integer indexes, and the values that are actually consumed by `./led-maps.js`. The mapper accepts 4 types of values:

* falsey (i.e. `null`, `0`, or `false`) - the mapper will ignore any indexes that are falsey
* '#pppppp' - use the user's chosen pattern (`LED_FLAG_USE_ROTATE_PATTERN`)
* '#pppp00' - use a specific pattern (where 00 is that `.pattern_id` - an integer between 0 and the max pattern id, which is 10 at the time of writing)
* '#ffffff' - any hex color value

Once you configure your layers, run `node led-layers.js`. It will print an `led_instructions` function that you can copy and paste into your `keymap.c`.

## Reference

* [Spreadsheet to help calculate bitwise ids for individual keys](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bsaMF4qmJNhvqlxmHmaXnhs7gung7_A0EqAyjStg_7U/edit?usp=sharing) (by @lastcontinue,famguy07, pleasuretek)
* [QMK keymap list of keycodes](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/blob/master/docs/keycodes.md)
